## About
A work in progress for building optimal tower defense mazes.
Optimality refers to making the shortest available path in a maze as long as possible,
with as small number of towers as possible.


## Map & Maze
A 2-dimensional map consists of tiles with X and Y coordinates.
Each tile has a type which specifies how moving units interact with them, and
what actions a Builder can perform on them.

Each map needs to have at least a single Spawn and Exit before a maze can be constructed.
There also needs to be at least a single traversable path between the Spawn and the Exit.

## Builders
A single builder is used to construct an optimal maze.
The paths are blocked by building a tower on a basic tile,
making it act like a wall.

Multiple Builders are presented, as they have different algorithms which scale
differently and have varying speeds.
Ideally, a Builder always constructs an optimal maze, and does it quickly
with low memory usage, even when the map size increases.

### Naive Builder
The Naive Maze Builder goes through every single combination of tiles and
changes them to towers. This Brute force method is slow and scales poorly,
but can in theory find an optimal maze.


### Cut-off Builder
The Cut-off Maze Builder recursively blocks the shortest available path.
The Builder keeps track of processed tiles to avoid unnecessary combinations.


### Q-Learning Builder
The experimental Q-Learning Maze Builder is based on reinforcement learning.
The Builder runs multiple simulations and gives scores for actions in specific states.
An optimal maze is not guaranteed.

## Installation
The program can be run with Python 3.8, which can be downloaded from [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

The required Python packages can be downloaded and installed with pip via command line: 
``$ pip install -r requirements.txt``

## Running the program
The program can be started with ``$ python main.py``, which opens a crude GUI.
A new map can be generated by setting the height and width of the map and pressing
the Build button. By pressing the Run button, the current map
is validated and the maze construction begins.

### GUI Controls
Left-click to select an active tile type from the Types window.
Left-click on the map area to set a tile or a selection of tiles as the active tile type.
Drag and hold right-click on the map area to add tiles to a selection.
Left- or right-click outside the selection to remove the selection.
